hi Rosie friends its Julie and today the
summer is getting started and it is
absolutely gorgeous outside and I just
got back from an outdoor festival and
actually it's my local pride that I go
to every year it's only the 3rd year in
my little community so I wanted to go
one you know show that I support the
community and everything there are a lot
more outdoor things happening right now
and I really don't think that just
because I have rosacea I should have to
avoid them
even though heat and the Sun and all
those things are pretty much a
worst-case scenario for any for
triggering and for any symptoms and
signs that I have and recently I also
received some messages um an Instagram
messenger from a Rosie friend who was
attending an outdoor event and who had a
really good time and it was a really
important event but she was really
really suffering I feel really bad for
her and she was just looking for a few
tips to get through it but um yeah so I
thought since she just talked to me I
think it was yesterday in fact it was
that recently and because I just went
through the whole thing today it might
be a fun topic to talk about what to do
to survive an outdoor summer event and
still have fun and get through it
without a flare-up or a flush or at
least with as little as possible and of
course you know I've gone through all of
my son care and things like that and I'm
going to be doing it updated after son
care video later on in a few weeks
actually I'm just kind of getting all of
my ideas together right now but I
thought that I would go through
basically some of the ideas if you're
actually at the event or if you are just
getting home from the event and your
face is flush and you are having a super
hard time cooling down here a few of the
ideas that I go through to get my skin
back under control after doing something
like that so I thought that I would
share the type of things that I do to
stay cool well and to keep flare-ups and
flushes away while I'm at the event and
then also what I do when I get home when
I'm actually at the event I do try to do
things like I always pack water with me
this one's pretty cool because it has
some lid like this so it acts almost
like a carabiner so I can
but on the outside like on the strap of
my bag but it's also small enough that
it'll slip inside my bag it's a kiss one
it's got little sharks on it that's a
topical but um I don't mind I mean
normally when I'm at home I have these
gigantic ones going but at least I
always have water and then I refill them
whenever I can if I'm at an outdoor
event um yeah I will have other things
you know if there's lemonade going or
something like that I'll have that but I
am drinking water all the time as well
no matter what else you're having drink
water the entire time it's so important
for your body's ability to regulate
temperature if you've seen some of my
other videos about sunscreen and things
like that then you know that I wear a
huge hats and I did I had my big new hat
so that I had a brim going all the way
around
I will bring parasols with me that kind
of thing I've covered that in other
videos I'll put a link to on my latest
Sun care video right here if you want to
see that but but actually at the event
it's not just a matter of keeping out of
the Sun it's also a matter of keeping
cool aside from drinking water they were
handing out these fans which was super
mouthful but I will actually carry a fan
like this in my purse or in a bag when I
go to outdoor events just to keep cool
if I have to if it's super hot out which
it is it's hot and it's sticky oh so it
is so humid Oh today so it was really
great to have the fans handy staying in
a place with a breeze staying in the
shade is always important also if you
find yourself getting really really hot
do things to keep the back of your neck
cool I find because sometimes I'll want
to look nice or I'll have sunscreen on I
don't want to be splashing water on my
sunscreen or makeup or whatever I
haven't had on I don't have makeup on I
have I makeup on but I don't have makeup
on my face I just have sunscreen right
now but I don't want to be misting
myself or splashing water on my face
because that means I'll have to keep
reapplying so I tend to do things like
if I can go into the bathroom and take
paper towels I wet them and I put them
on the back of my neck I do things like
I keep my hair and feeling a little
brave like this so that the back of my
neck will get a breeze
the reason the back of your neck is
because when the back of your neck is
cooled down it actually cools down your
whole body really really quickly it's
like if you keep your underarms cool
there are certain parts of your body
that if you cool them down it'll cool
you down really really quickly if you
have a cooler with you toss them a few
of these little minor Hello Kitty but
these messages because
that's what they sell oh the dollar
store they um they call them goobacks
but it's basically their kids ice packs
they're gel so they're like bendy and um
they're meant for if you bump your head
or something like that and me me W have
a welt so you want to put that on there
well I use them and I select these
things try something back of my neck if
you can't stand the ice directly
directly on the back of your neck just
wrap it in a towel or a little piece of
cloth of some kind and then just get it
on the back of your neck I find if I'm
hot enough and I have enough of a flush
ice right on the back of my neck does
not affect me I am so glad to have it
and again this isn't actually ice like
an ice cube that would be freezing this
is uh more of a gel so it's been dear
and it doesn't feel quite as freezing
cold writing my skin but yeah so that's
another tip in an in a bind a wet paper
towel will do it just keep cooling it
down and then reapplying I also try to
actually keep my anxiety under control
in those types of events because I find
once I start to feel myself flushing or
I feel that burning feeling in my skin I
start to get tense and I start to become
upset but this is going to get worse and
worse and you know can I get this under
control and things if I breathe and
really try and sort of talk myself
through it and get calm it will actually
help to keep it under control because
anxiety is a real driver it is a real
trigger for me for my rosacea symptoms
so it's really really helpful to me to
be able to actually get myself calm so
that way it's only the heat and humidity
that are affecting my skin and not
something in my emotions and something
internal and finally when I get home the
first thing that I do is wash off all
the extra sunscreen now that's kind of I
haven't done that yet so that sounds a
little bit like a lie but my skin is not
too bad today
so um normally when I get home I knew
that I was going to be doing this video
and I didn't want to have to sit down
here and yet again say I just wash my
face and that's why it's looking all red
it's I just wanted to finish the video
and let you know all about these tips
while it was still in the very front of
my brain but yep normally I walk in the
door I take off my shoes I go into the
bathroom wash my face and then I wash
off the sunscreen I use coconut oil and
then I use a cleanser to make sure that
I really get it off especially if I've
applied sunscreen more than once
I really want to be very fastidious
about getting it all off I'm very gentle
about it I take my time I massage very
very gently with a coconut oil you can
also use jojoba oil olive oil grapeseed
oil something like that hope our haba
works for me but coconut oil is a lot
cheaper and it's fine for me as long as
I wash it off right away otherwise I get
breakouts but as long as I wash it off
right away then I have no problem with
it so I just have a thing of coconut oil
next time I think all the time it's
basically the container is this so it's
just some regular virgin coconut oil
cold-pressed this one's organic I just
buy it because I think it's only you
know ten twenty five cents more
expensive than the regular ones so I
don't know Organic might be better if
it's not it's not that much more
expensive but I just take it out of here
and I put it into this pretty container
that I really like I got this at the
dollar store it looks as though it's
some sort of very fancy product of some
kind it's not it's coconut oil from the
grocery store in a pretty thing dish and
I just use a little bit of that and I
just rub it over my skin and then I take
a microfiber cloth and I wipe it very
very gently off to remove the sunscreen
and then I use my regular cleanser and I
wash off the coconut oil and any
remaining sunscreen or dirt or anything
that's left over after all of that so
once that's done then I will normally do
my light therapy then instead of later
on that night because I normally do it
right before bed but I will do my light
therapy right away just to get in a
little bit more calming and cooling
extra benefits into my skin right away
to make sure that I'm giving myself an
advantage to cool down and then I
moisturize and that's it and I try and
take it easy
I keep hydrating for the rest of the day
hydration is so so so important
serifs will still happen I do still get
overheated and flush at times this time
was really good I'm feeling so proud of
this one I don't know why I was this
lucky but my skin really survived it
well but yeah I do still every now and
again end up with signs and symptoms
depending on the weather depending on my
mood depending on whatever it is that
sends your rosacea into a downward
spiral but all that said when I do take
these
cautions and I do keep these handy or at
least during I have paper towels or
something like that handy so that I
can't actually keep the back of my neck
cool because the back of my neck keeps
my face cool then with all those steps I
can at least keep it to a minimum and
then by the time I get home I can manage
any any damage that's been done but yeah
so um because summer is just getting
going and all these things are just
getting started I thought that I would
share this video in the hopes that it
will help someone out I know these
aren't these tips are too revolutionary
but it's bringing them all together and
then actually remembering to put them
into action that really makes a
difference so yep so I hope this helps
somebody get through a festival or two
and have a lot of fun at the same time
because I really I really don't think
that we should be avoiding going and
enjoying all of these events and things
I go I hope you like this video I hope
it helps you out I hope you found at
least one new tip that you can use the
next time you want to go out and do
something fun in the summertime if you
did like this video and you want me to
make similar videos to this I hope
you'll give it a thumbs up that way I'll
know and if you haven't yet subscribed
to this channel I hope you will because
I make new videos every Sunday and most
thursdays and other than that I will see
you next time
[Music]